.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2020 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.TH KEY.DNS_RESOLVER.CONF 5 "18 May 2020" Linux "Linux Key Management Utilities"
.SH NAME
key.dns_resolver.conf \- Kernel DNS resolver config
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file is used by the key.dns_resolver(5) program to set parameters.
Unless otherwise overridden with the \fB\-c\fR flag, the program reads:
.IP
/etc/key.dns_resolver.conf
.P
Configuration options are given in \fBkey[=value]\fR form, where \fBvalue\fR is
optional.  If present, the value may be surrounded by a pair of single ('') or
double quotes ("") which will be stripped off.  The special characters in the
value may be escaped with a backslash to turn them into ordinary characters.
.P
Lines beginning with a '#' are considered comments and ignored.  A '#' symbol
anywhere after the '=' makes the rest of the line into a comment unless the '#'
is inside a quoted section or is escaped.
.P
Leading and trailing spaces and spaces around the '=' symbol will be stripped
off.
.P
Available options include:
.TP
.B default_ttl=<number>
The number of seconds to set as the expiration on a cached record.  This will
be overridden if the program manages to retrieve TTL information along with
the addresses (if, for example, it accesses the DNS directly).  The default is
5 seconds.  The value must be in the range 1 to INT_MAX.
.P
The file can also include comments beginning with a '#' character unless
otherwise suppressed by being inside a quoted value or being escaped with a
backslash.

.SH FILES
.ul
/etc/key.dns_resolver.conf
.ul 0
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBkey.dns_resolver\fR(8)
