.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Written by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version
.\" 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.TH KEY.DNS_RESOLVER 8 "18 May 2020" Linux "Linux Key Management Utilities"
.SH NAME
key.dns_resolver \- upcall for request\-key to handle dns_resolver keys
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/sbin/key.dns_resolver \fR<key>
.br
\fB/sbin/key.dns_resolver \fR--dump-config [\-c <configfile>]
.br
\fB/sbin/key.dns_resolver \fR\-D [\-v] [\-v] [\-c <configfile>] <desc>
.br
<calloutinfo>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is invoked by request\-key on behalf of the kernel when kernel
services (such as NFS, CIFS and AFS) want to perform a hostname lookup and the
kernel does not have the key cached.  It is not ordinarily intended to be
called directly.
.P
There program has internal parameters that can be changed with a configuration
file (see key.dns_resolver.conf(5) for more information).  The default
configuration file is in /etc, but this can be overridden with the \fB-c\fR
flag.
.P
The program can be called in debugging mode to test its functionality by
passing a \fB\-D\fR or \fB\--debug\fR flag on the command line.  For this to
work, the key description and the callout information must be supplied.
Verbosity can be increased by supplying one or more \fB\-v\fR flags.
.P
The program may also be called with \fB--dump-config\fR to show the values that
configurable parameters will have after parsing the config file.
.SH ERRORS
All errors will be logged to the syslog.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR key.dns_resolver.conf (5),
.BR request\-key.conf (5),
.BR keyrings (7),
.BR request\-key (8)
